Therapeutics: Fill in gaps, tone down certain sections, minor edits to rest of text (#643)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

There are ongoing trials in China and Italy that will inform our understanding of the therapeutic value of vitamin C supplementation for COVID-19.
Once again, vitamin C intake is likely to be part of a healthy diet and the vitamin likely presents minimal risk, but its potential prophylactic or therapeutic effects against COVID-19 are unknown.

##### Vitamin D

In terms of other dietary supplements, vitamin D can modulate the adaptive and innate immune system and has been associated with various aspects of health.
Vitamin D can be sourced through diet or supplementation, but it is mainly biosynthesized by the body on exposure to sunlight.
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with an increased susceptibility to infection [@doi:10.2310/JIM.0b013e31821b8755].
In particular, vitamin D deficient patients are at risk of developing acute respiratory infections [@doi:10.1016/j.jsbmb.2012.11.017] and ARDS [@doi:10.1016/j.jsbmb.2012.11.017].

> 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (25-hydroxyvitamin D) is the active form of vitamin D that is involved in adaptive and innate responses, whereby the vitamin D receptor is expressed in various immune cells and vitamin D is an immunomodulator of antigen presenting cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, monocytes, and T- and B-lymphocytes [@doi:10.2310/JIM.0b013e31821b8755; @doi:10.1016/j.coph.2010.04.001].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (25-hydroxyvitamin D) is the active form of vitamin D that is involved in adaptive and innate responses, however, due to a short half life of a few hours, it is measured by its longer lasting precursor 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. The vitamin D receptor is expressed in various immune cells and vitamin D is an immunomodulator of antigen presenting cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, monocytes, and T- and B-lymphocytes [@doi:10.2310/JIM.0b013e31821b8755; @doi:10.1016/j.coph.2010.04.001].
```

Due to its potential immunomodulating properties, vitamin D supplementation may be advantageous to maintain a healthy immune system.

> A recent review postulated that an individual’s vitamin D status may significantly affect their risk of developing COVID-19 [@doi:10.3390/nu12040988].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One influential review postulated that an individual’s vitamin D status may significantly affect their risk of developing COVID-19 [@doi:10.3390/nu12040988].
```

This hypothesis was derived from the fact that the current pandemic emerged in winter in Wuhan China when 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations are at their lowest due to a lack of sunlight, whereas in the Southern Hemisphere, where it was nearing the end of the summer and higher 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations would be higher, the number of cases was low.
The authors suggested that people at risk of developing COVID-19 should increase their vitamin D3 intake to reach 25-hydroxyvitamin D plasma concentrations above 40–60 ng/ml.

> The authors also suggest high-dose supplementation of vitamin D to treat infected patients and to prevent infection in hospital staff [@doi:10.3390/nu12040988].

Reviewer: I will add one or two new studies here this evening, as vit D is probably the most promising with retrospective results already out

Both female and male patients possessed lower median 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations than the control group (18.6 ng/ml versus 21.5 ng/ml; p = 0.0016) and a higher rate of vitamin D deficiency (58.6% versus 42.5%).
Evidence of sexual dimorphism was apparent, as female patients had equivalent levels of 23-hydroxyvitamin D to the control group, whereas male patients were deficient in 25-hydroxyvitamin D relative to male controls (67% versus 49%; p = 0.0006).
Notably, vitamin D deficiency was progressively lower in males with advancing radiological disease stages (p = 0.001).
These studies are supported by several others that indicate that vitamin D status may be an independent risk factor for the severity of COVID-19 [@doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0239799; @doi:10.1016/j.jiph.2020.06.021; @doi:10.1111/febs.15495; @doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2020.19722]. 

> Indeed, serum concentrations of less above 30 ng/ml seem to be associated with a reduction in serum C-reative protein (CRP), an inflammatory marker, along with increased lymphocyte levels, which suggests that vitamin D levels may modulate the immune response by reducing risk for cytokine storm in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed, serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D above 30 ng/ml (vitamin D sufficiency) seem to be associated with a reduction in serum C-reactive protein (CRP), an inflammatory marker, along with increased lymphocyte levels, which suggests that vitamin D levels may modulate the immune response by reducing risk for cytokine storm in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. 
```

Other trials are also underway examining various factors including mortality, symptom recovery, severity of disease, rates of ventilation, inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6, blood cell counts, and the prophylactic capacity of vitamin D administration [@clinicaltrials:NCT04385940; @clinicaltrials:NCT04334005; @clinicaltrials:NCT04411446; @clinicaltrials:NCT04344041].
Concomitant administration of vitamin D with pharmaceuticals such as aspirin [@clinicaltrials:NCT04363840] and bioactive molecules such as resveratrol [@clinicaltrials:NCT04400890] are also under investigation.

> Whether or not vitamin D status is linked to COVID-19 outcomes, even spuriously, thus remains open for debate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there is increasing evidence that vitamin D status is linked to COVID-19 outcomes, the effectiveness of its supplementation remains open for debate.
```

Reviewer: I will add the studies below to support this statement in text shortly. It is the only one I would tone down too much as there is a lot of research now supporting vit D investigation. 

https://doi.org/10.3390/nu12082358
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0239799
https://doi.org/10.1111/febs.15495
https://doi.org/10.1111/cen.14276

Reviewer: Studies added to this section, requires a re-read and see if you are happy with the tone :) @rando2

Once again, supplementation of vitamin D and maintaining a healthy diet for optimum vitamin D status is unlikely to carry major health risks while the possible link between vitamin D status and COVID-19 is investigated.
However, pursuing to elevate vitamin D levels through sunlight exposure does carry additional risks, as many densely populated cities around the world are utilizing ‘stay in place’ orders to enforce social distancing guidelines.

> Given the lack of conclusive evidence in support of vitamin D, it is not clear that these guidelines present additional risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the lack of conclusive evidence in support of vitamin D supplementation, it is not clear that these guidelines present additional risk.
```

> However, to the extent that people are able to maintain safe exposure to sunlight, there is a possibility that it could improve endogenous synthesis of vitamin D, potentially strengthening the immune system.

Reviewer: It can be got in diet too, maybe acknowledge that too if you think its relevant, I didn't want to mess up your nice wording here :)

Critiques of the production and distribution of the H1N1 vaccine have stressed the need for alternative development-and-manufacturing platforms that can be readily adapted to new pathogens.
Although a monovalent H1N1 vaccine was not available before the pandemic peaked in the United States and Europe, it was available soon afterward as a stand-alone vaccine that was eventually incorporated into commercially available seasonal influenza vaccines [@doi:10.1056/NEJMp2005630].
If H1N1 vaccine development provides any indication, considering developing and manufacturing platforms for promising COVID-19 vaccine trials early could hasten the emergence of an effective prophylactic vaccine against SARS-CoV-2.

The first critical step towards developing a vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 was characterizing the target, which fortunately happened early in the COVID-19 outbreak with the sequencing and dissemination of the viral genome [@url:https://www.who.int/csr/don/12-january-2020-novel-coronavirus-china/en/].
The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) is coordinating global health agencies and pharmaceutical companies to develop vaccines against SARS-CoV-2.

> As of April 8, 2020, there were already 115 vaccine candidates against prevent SARS-CoV-2, of which 78 were under active development.

Reviewer: Do we need an update here?

Author: Hmm I'm not sure where this came from. In the data source we use for Figure 2, there seem to be 116. I'm not sure how they're defining "under active development" because that reports whether they're recruiting and what phase they're in. I'm going to adjust it to be more vague for this PR, but I should be able to edit the code so that it can automatically update these numbers!
Data source: <http://covid19.trialstracker.net/>
